pResearch and Planning Report
Aims and objectives
Breakdown of deliverable.

Talk with Aidan, mainly concurrent problem, a paragraph or so setting up the context of the problem, talk about my ants, then straight into the technical arena. Look at SIMD and MIMD,

FUNCTIONAL BRIGHTON!!

Purely functional languages give you advatages

You never have to lock
share stuctures
you can make things lazy
ignore time and sequences 

What is a persistant data structure. - 
-immutable, 


Purely Functional Data Structures
Chris Okasaki (also wrote a thesis)

Erlang demonstration of tuples
Erlang sends lists everywhere.
Pattern matching,
Actors die and send messages to other actors connect that they've died to other actors/processes connected to them. If they don't handle it they die till a process/actor restarts the process.

Zippers in Haskell
When you have  a lot of updates near a certain data structure, Zippers can provide a cursor position. allows you to edit deep down in a tree.

Demo a zipper on binary trees.

you have a focus point.
a version of the data structre with a hole in it.(recursively defined data structures can go in the hole
TreeContext everything else Tree records the sub tree beneath you.
for example in a tree with two branches
and too leaves for each branch
the Tree would contain everything beneath the point of focus.
The tree contexct would vcontain the paths not taken.

making modifications at the point of focus is O of 1
and make modifications else where is O of the depth of the trees
Using algerbra on types.
Gerard Huet (Functional Pearl, The zipper)

Quad trees
Concurrent KD trees...

Have a process telling the 

Parallel sodoku puzzels.
Recurssive backtrackeing..
-Depth first search (DFS) - using the values  1-9

Immutable collections
Laziness
High order functions
Restule is less code 40 LOC Vs 600 lines closjure vs C#
-Closjure is a modern version of lisp.

Agents in closjure...
Agents have a state you  can send a function to them and they'll change state in a seperate thread.

parralel maps using sudoku boards (not lazy version.
(in closjure, an AGENT is DATA you send FUNCTIONS TOO!)

demo in scala 2.9 to show th difference in speed.

clojures pmap works better with equal load function
not  a ptoblem for non-lazy parrallel maps
fork/join enabled map (pvmap/pvreduce).
http://blip.tv/clojure/david-liebke-from-concurrency-to-parralelsim-4663526
github maruks
alwasys profile your code!


github.com/almost - bloom filters
Sounds a bit dodgey - sometimes  tells you  it isn't when it is. but will never tell you it is when it isn't.

Scala list is polymorphic
all values in list must have the same type.
List with (1,"baz,1.0) ->type any
tuples preserve type
with H lists you can create a list with types preserved.
Tricky things come when you try and index into the array you have to encode the type of each index to get the right one.
Can be used in Haskell


