Planning and Research Report

**the aims and objectives of your project

The process of settling on a topic for my project took quite some time I initially wanted to produce something which was more in the Natural Language Programming field. With the initial aim to implement an intelligent agent that would intelligently parse text recognizing relationships between pronouns and the nouns they actually relate to(?word) and store store everything in a database that it parsed so that it could analize the data statistically and self optimize the parsing rules I initially gave it in order to parse more efficiently and accurately. Furthermore I wanted to extend that idea further and include text generation functionality to the proposed project and allow it to communicate with a user(<?word) via a keyboaard and screen so it would effectively become a chatbot which "learnt" from its mistakes. After further research into the NLP field I realized how ambitious these plans were and that just the subject of data mining descriptive text(<?words) in isolation is a broad field. (... still I was interested in it and talked about producing a small murder mystery game which could be completed by the player through interacting with the various Non-player characters within the game, Natural language Processors ...)
I also interested exploring the field of AI in particular genetic algorithms. The main concept of the idea was to recreate a race track and racing car and implement an intelligent agent with a limited view of the track such as a human would have and after exposing functionality of the car such as a human would have give the agent the goal of completing the track in the least amount of time possible. It turned out I didn't go with this idea because it would have been an incredible amount of work to develop the track and car and to accurately simulate all the physics involved that it was possible that the AI element wouldn't get time required to produce a finished artifact.(?word)

After reading around the field of AI I came across the topic of swarm intelligence, which was first used in reference to robots. The definition given in the article by Beni, G. and Wang, J. (1989) "systems of non-intelligent robots exhibiting collectively intelligent behaviour evident in the ability to unpredictably produce ‘specific’ ([i.e.] not in a statistical sense) ordered patterns of matter in the external environment"

History of Parallelism

What problems can be parallelized


**a description of what you are planning to investigate, analyse, develop etc.

**a specification of the stages or deliverables this can be broken down into

**a schedule of activities.

**a risk analysis of potential problems.

**ethics

**a report on your background research with an annotated bibliography.

-Aims and objs
Discus my problem area, identify property of concurrency and parallelism.
Talk about the difference between concurrency and parallelism.
Different areas of parallel computing
-Cloud computing,High-performance computing,Cluster computing,Distributed computing,Grid computing
Levels of parralelism
-Bit,Instruction,Data,Task
?Threads
What is Superthreading,Hyperthreading?relavant.
Theory behind Concurrency and parallelism
-Amdahl's law,Gustafson's law,Cost efficiency,Karp–Flatt metric,slowdown,speedup
Elements of concurrency
-Process,Thread,Fiber,PRAM,Instruction window
Programming	
!!!Models(Implicit parallelism,Explicit parallelism,Concurrency)!!!Flynn's taxonomy (SISD • SIMD • MISD • MIMD (SPMD))!!! Thread(computer science)  · Non-blocking algorithm.
Different API's and Hardware - Methods to implement?
Hardware
Multiprocessing(Symmetric - Asymmetric),Memory(NUMA-COMA-distributed-shared-distributed shared),SimultaneousMultiThreading(SMT)
MassivelyParralelProcessing,Superscalar,Vector processor,Supercomputer,Beowulf.
API's
Ateji PX,POSIX Threads,OpenMP,OpenHMPP,ParralelVirtualMachine,MessagePassingInterface,UnifiedParallelC,Intel Threading Building Blocks,Boost.Thread,Global Arrays,Charm++,Cilk,Co-array Fortran,OpenCL,CUDA,Dryad,DryadLINQ 
Coordination	
-Multiprocessing · Multithreading (computer architecture) · Memory coherency · Cache coherency · Cache invalidation · Barrier · Synchronization · Application checkpointing
Problems
-Embarrassingly parallel,Grand Challenge,Software lockout!!!Scalability!!!Race conditions,Deadlock,Livelock,Deterministic algorithm,Parallel slowdown

AND CONCURRENCY!?!

main aims of project
about the application
back knowledge
explanations on implentation
programs I'm going to use
Code
Realisim
More about the application.
1.5k words

Planning and Investigating
1.5k words


Research
is a substantial document
annotated bibliography
100 hours befoer Planning Research report.
Continue throughout project.

Resources
Books, journals, proceedings, white papers
WWW/Databases (Student Central/library)
Personal approaches interviews
/
What is research
Systematic investigation - research method.
Establish facts and reach new conclusions.
Discover new facts and collate old facts

HopCRoFT Mutwani - Introduction to automata theory! - BIG O-Notation...
Mutwani----Google--- Sergey Brin Larry Page.